# 4-story-Elevator_PLC-Arduino
The purpose of this project is to demonstrate process control by creating a 4-story elevator. The elevator cab rests on the first floor and waits for either an elevator call or a floor call. When the cab is called, it must travel to the correct floor, where the door opens to allow passengers in and out. When the door closes, the cab returns to the first floor if no other calls are made.

Theory of Operation:

The automated elevator is a demonstration of process control through use of a programmable logic controller (PLC). The PLC monitors all elevator call buttons on each floor, as well as the panel of floor buttons normally accessible from inside the elevator. Pressing one of these call buttons or floor buttons feeds a signal to that button’s corresponding input on the PLC. The PLC then receives the signal and outputs a specific 4-bit binary number that is assigned to that input as well as a logical high signal used to communicate to the Arduino that an input has been received.

The Arduino is responsible for controlling the operation of all elevator doors, the stepper motor to control the elevator cab, and handling all sequencing of necessary elevator functions. Once the Arduino receives the logical high signal indicating an input from the PLC, the Arduino triggers an interrupt function that parses the parallel transmission to determine which input was pressed. Once that input is determined the Arduino updates the indicator lights to illuminate any elevator call buttons that were pressed. The Arduino then runs a check of all button inputs received starting from the first floor going up and then from the top floor going down. Any button inputs that correspond to a specific floor cause the Arduino to move the elevator cab to that floor using a stepper motor that takes a specific number of steps from one floor to the next. Once the elevator cab reaches the appropriate floor the Arduino clears the appropriate button inputs from the queue and then sends the necessary signals to control the CD drive’s DC motors that open the elevator doors. Once the doors have been opened for a predetermined amount of time the doors close once again and the elevator cab moves to the next floor that has designated inputs. If the Arduino makes it through the entire sequence of floors and finds no inputs have been received the cab is then returned to the ground floor and the elevator doors are left open until a new button input is received.
